---
layout: post
title: This is where it begins
---

# Capstone Blog Started, GitHub Pages, Jekyll and Hugo

This is the fastest way I can think of explaining how I got here.

1. I've started work on my Capstone project for the Google Data Analytics Certification through Coursera and I needed somewhere to keep a blog documenting my work.
2. I find out that you can host a blog on GitHub.
3. Doing stuff on GitHub gives me more GitHub experience it's a way to show more of my technical skills.
4. Time to figure out how to create a blog on GitHub.

## Creating a GitHub blog

Initially, AI pointed me toward installing Ruby and Jekyll. I installed them but it seemed things were getting complicated quickly and I'm not expecting to use Ruby much. I also found a lot of tutorials and videos were done by people running Mac. I'm currently on Windows. Today, a Mac would have made things easier.

### Using a Fork to create my first blog
I took a step back and while looking at a few more videos I found, [Frontend Tutorials: How to create and host a blog on Github](https://youtu.be/nTLzLhFG9mc?si=0mrwfrmzm-YLJRKs). I watched most of the video and then went back to 1:15 to create my first blog. As I write this sentence, I'm at 5:30 and it's time to commit my changes in GitHub to my new Jekyll blog and try to install Hugo.   

### Make it look nice using Hugo

Well, that took a few more steps than I was expecting. I've now used Chocolatey to install something (Hugo) through PowerShell, installed GitHub Desktop, and in PowerShell and Visual Studio installed Hugo into the clone of my GitHub Hugo repository. I'm going to have a lot of skills to add to [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/enordstr/) by the end of this. 

**Note**: It would have been easier to find some cheap web hosting that offers blog functionality. Getting interested, learning, doing and using that new knowldege to create something valuable is something that has made me unique as a technical writer, manager, and almost everything else in my career. But most of what I've done in the past is locked behind firewalls on intranets, where potential employers can't access them. Doing this is a way to show what what I enjoy doing and the value of the results. 

At 10:45 in [Frontend Tutorials: How to create and host a blog on Github](https://youtu.be/nTLzLhFG9mc?si=0mrwfrmzm-YLJRKs) he installs a Hugo theme. Now I'm faced with choosing a theme to use.  

I used this prompt with ChatGPT 4o, "*How should I choose which Hugo blog focused theme will be best for me?  It needs to be free, and run as a GitHub page. I want it to look nice and have ways of categorizing the content.*" The results were impressive, but it's getting late so this seems like a good place to stop for the day. 
